Step 1: Install Visual Studio Code
Download Visual Studio Code:
Go to the Visual Studio Code website.
Click on the "Download" button for your operating system (Windows, macOS, or Linux).
Download VS Code
Install Visual Studio Code:
Run the downloaded installer.
Follow the installation prompts, selecting your preferences.
Launch Visual Studio Code after installation.
Step 2: Install Git
Download Git:
Visit the Git website.
Click on "Download" for your operating system.
Download Git
Install Git:
Run the installer and follow the prompts.
Choose the default options unless specific configurations are needed.
Verify the installation by opening a terminal and typing:
text
git --version

Step 3: Create a New Project
Open Visual Studio Code.
Create a New Folder:
Go to File > Open Folder... and create/select a folder for your new project.
Open Folder
Create a New File:
Right-click in the Explorer pane and select New File.
Name the file (e.g., index.html).
Step 4: Initialize Git Repository
Open Terminal in VS Code:
Go to View > Terminal or press Ctrl + `.
Initialize Git:
In the terminal, navigate to your project folder (if not already there):
text
cd path/to/your/project

Initialize the Git repository:
text
git init

Step 5: Create .gitignore File
Create .gitignore:
In the Explorer pane, right-click and select New File.
Name the file .gitignore.
Add Ignored Files:
Open .gitignore and add files/folders you want Git to ignore. Example:
text
node_modules/
*.log

Step 6: Push to GitHub
Create a GitHub Repository:
Go to GitHub and log in.
Click on the + icon in the top right corner and select New repository.
Name your repository and click Create repository.
Link Local Repository to GitHub:
In the terminal, add the remote repository:
text
git remote add origin https://github.com/yourusername/repositoryname.git

Add and Commit Changes:
Stage your changes:
text
git add .

Commit your changes:
text
git commit -m "Initial commit"

Push to GitHub:
Push your changes to the remote repository:
text
git push -u origin master

GitHub Repository
The GitHub repository for this sample project can be found at: Your GitHub Repository Link
This repository includes:
The initialized project with a sample index.html file.
A .gitignore file configured to ignore unnecessary files.
Reflection on Challenges
During the setup process, several challenges were encountered:
Installation Issues:
Challenge: Encountered errors during the installation of Git due to system permissions.
Strategy: Run the installer as an administrator to resolve permission issues.
Configuring .gitignore:
Challenge: Uncertainty about which files to include in the .gitignore file.
Strategy: Researched common .gitignore templates for web projects and adapted them as needed.
Pushing to GitHub:
Challenge: Faced difficulties with authentication when pushing to GitHub.
Strategy:I Used a personal access token for authentication instead of a password, as GitHub has deprecated password authentication for Git operations.
